when someone comes in with this like
low-grade depression like they're not
suicidal or anything but they just like
don't feel like doing anything all day
and are kind of bummed out and like
aren't really happy and like not really
motivated and they're just kind of like
meh
like a large percentage of those people
i'd say in my practice like 10 of those
people are like hypothyroid i'm getting
confused okay so here's what we're gonna
do i'm gonna give you guys a list a
constellation of symptoms
and then you guys let me know like
whether this applies to you okay
problems with motivation
problems with memory
problems with
executive function
so this is the ability to plan and
implement long-term tasks as well as
delay gratification
problems with attention
problems with verbal fluency
difficulty learning
dick uh problems with psychomotor
efficiency
so this kind of means like you could say
feeling sluggish okay
so this is part of what we're gonna do
so
next up we have fatigue
um weight gain
cold intolerance
constipation
dry skin
muscle aches
and menstrual irregularities
okay and then over here we've also got
anxiety
diarrhea
weak muscles
over here we have fatigue
and then over here we have low energy
insomnia
low mood
low motivation
low enjoyment
and then lastly we've got
let's say fatigue
quick to anger
feeling
sleepy during the day
poor quality sleep
as well as problems with
motivation
executive function
things like that okay so first question
chat
is do these things apply to y'all
okay
so like these this is a collection of
different medical conditions
and what we're gonna do is some
statistical so the first thing is like
when i said i wasn't gonna hold back
this is me not holding back so if you
guys are like hey this is a really long
list of like lots of complicated things
welcome to medical school chat this is
how you become a doctor you memorize
lists and lists and lists of clinical
presentations
and then there's also like lab testing
and figuring out what treatments are and
stuff like that but these are the things
that
these are the constellations of symptoms
okay
so the first thing is like who wants to
guess like what is category one
anyone know
what's your guess for category one okay
good so if someone's guessing adhd
depression what else we got
lack of sleep insomnia
anorexia
what a vitamin deficiency which vitamin
chat we're in med school now this is
twitch school of medicine welcome
everyone dyslexia
lupus
vitamin d deficiency vitamin b12
deficiency
right okay so cool cool chat these are
this is so good like look at all of
these things that could be
here thiamin deficiency good someone's
oh someone's like actually in medical
school
vitamin c deficiency
autism
okay guess what chat
all of these are wrong this is
type
diabetes
so what percentage of y'all are
overweight
this is the consequence of insulin
resistance
and high blood sugar
this is exact so this is exactly what
i'm saying so all gamers should get
their blood sugar checked
okay so next question chat
what percentage of people
have type 2 diabetes
do you guys know
ah see now now
answers are all over the place so this
is ten percent
which means that nine out of ten people
are going to be healthy and this is
going to be important this is going to
come up next okay so just because you're
overweight you may have some degree of
of insulin resistance
you may have some degree of like high
blood sugar
you may have some of these symptoms
but what we're really talking about is
10 percent of people
have type 2 diabetes okay
next up
let's try again
so fatigue weight gain cold intolerance
constipation dry skin muscle aches and
menstrual irregularities what do you all
think this is
i think it's
globally
okay someone's talking about anemia
hypothyroidism
pots oh my god
anxiety chat
depression ibs crohn's
okay so like look chat listen to me
listen to me
so a lot of these are really good
answers
pregnant
it's good
that's good i'm glad someone mentioned
pregnancy
so pregnancy so one of the key things i
learned in medical school is pregnancy
is the one diagnosis you should you can
never afford to forget about it's
something that you always have to
assuming you've got a female patient
right but like it's the one thing you
all like you can never forget about
pregnancy you always have to think to
yourself is this person pregnant because
it changes everything it changes like
you know because like medicines can be
tratagenic it can be weird borreliosis
no it's not poreless
but i like it
um food intolerance no
so the other thing chat is like do you
guys get that these are these are all
like good things that you should maybe
get evaluated for right
puberty no that's not a good one oh my
god these are great this is so much
better gout
no
so it's right so you guys figured this
one out this is hypothyroidism okay so
now this is pretty interesting so what
do y'all think
the right answer is hypothyroid
so now the question is what uh
what it was like the second answer to
um what what percentage of the
population do you think is hypothyroid
what do y'all think
okay so good i think you guys are like
doing better about this so there's
conflicting data so this is where this
is an important point that i have to
share so in my experience there's like
true hypothyroidism and then there's
subclinical hypothyroidism
so the statistics around true
hypothyroidism some of them are like one
out of 300 right so really small but
others other studies will suggest that
hypothyroidism is closer to 3.7
and this could be kind of in the
subclinical range
so
the reason that i test tsh for all of my
patients who have like fatigue and like
basically depressive symptoms and like
things like weight gain and menstrual
irregularities is they may not have
full-blown hypothyroidism
but around let's say four percent so
let's say 96 out of 100 people
are gonna be totally fine and 3.7 or
four percent of people will have may
benefit some clinically from some kind
of thyroid supplementation
okay
so uh can i explain what the thyroid is
yeah so the thyroid gland is like
situated here in your neck and releases
something called thyroid hormone and
thyroid hormone does all kinds of things
in your body so the thing to remember
about hormones is a hormone is a
chemical signal
that travels everywhere through your
body so the key thing about hormones is
that they affect all of your organ
systems because they go everywhere and
they try to they try to help your body
work in concert so another good example
is adrenaline adrenaline is a hormone so
what is adrenaline on the effect what
effect does adrenaline have on the gi
system and so this is where i'd ask you
what does the body want to do what does
the gi system want to do
when
you're in a situation where adrenaline
is released
the answer is that your body your gi
system wants to absolutely shut off
which is exactly what adrenaline does
because if you like you don't want to be
digesting food if you're like fighting
against a lion right like you don't want
to worry about like forming stool and
digesting things you want to worry about
survival so if we look at adrenaline it
does things like increase your heart
rate it does things like increase your
blood pressure in uh does things like
makes your brain think in black and
white and makes it think faster and more
catastrophically
it also does things like uh shut off
your gi system essentially
you know like all of like the slow stuff
like the rest and digest functions of
your brain like it doesn't want to mess
with any of that stuff it does things
like vaso uh vasodilate you know the the
blood vessels that go to your lungs
increases your respiratory rate so
hormones are chemical compounds that
travel throughout your body and
essentially they coordinate all of the
body's response they coordinate all of
the different organ systems to sort of
succeed at doing one thing
so thyroid hormone is kind of tricky
because it does like a lot of different
stuff but essentially like i kind of
think about the balance of thyroid
hormone is like internally like your yin
and your yang so for example people in
northern climates
have higher levels of thyroid hormone
because thyroid hormone is one of the
things that increases brown fat
production
brown fat is the is how you generate
heat within your body so if you look at
people who are like you know in northern
climates they tend to have slightly
higher levels of thyroid hormone they
tend to have more brown fat they tend to
burn more fat to maintain body
temperature which is also why it's kind
of super interesting because if you look
at obesity as it relates to different
climates
the more equatorial climates are more
prone to obesity and weight gain and as
you move north into colder climates you
tend to have people who overall tend to
be a little bit thinner
and so if you look at hypothyroidism it
causes weight gain causes cold
intolerance whereas if you look at this
one is hyperthyroidism
but this is considerably rare
and so you know hypothyroidism causes
constipation hyperthyroidism causes
diarrhea hyperthyroidism causes anxiety
and then like you know hypothyroidism
basically causes like depression
symptoms of depression and if you think
about depression and anxiety one is like
a slow mind one is an overactive mind
so thyroid hormone is really interesting
because it affects all the different
like organs in like really different
ways
yeah so we'll get to the actual blood
tests in a second okay
so next up i know it's kind of weird but
we've just got fatigue
what do you all think this is
are there medications for these yes
we're going to get let's finish let's
finish diagnosing all these then we'll
go on we'll talk about
tired ibs
yeah so you so chronic fatigue syndrome
that's a new one so we talked about b12
anemia
okay
uh vitamin d
sure
hiv sure that's on there
it's actually a good guess
insomnia
myocarditis yes
it can absolutely present his fatigue
burnout sure
there's a lot of stuff so this this one
too so this is b12 deficiency
so i like this is the other thing about
medicine so this is it isn't like
i mean i'm sort of trying to simplify
things but also give you guys some some
stuff a little bit complicated
so the key thing about b12 deficiency is
that it tends to not present
as like a bunch of different random
stuff like you're not going to see
weight gain with b12 deficiency you're
not gonna see like uh you know dry skin
or muscle atrophy or things like that
you may not see quite as much um you
know like
like the the specificity of these
deficits probably have to do with
the high level of sugar in your like uh
your vascular system and things like
that so you get like brain wide effects
in uh type 2 diabetes which you may get
fatigue and b12 deficiency but you're
not going to get quite like you're not
going to get like a verbal learning
like negative impact in b12 deficiency
so b12 deficiency let me just see what
how common it is did i forget to look
that oh yeah i didn't even look this up
so i don't even know it's rare though so
the the thing is b12 deficiency can
sometimes happen in people who are like
vegans
but generally speaking b12 deficiency is
quite rare
i don't remember the exact statistics
but it's something else to consider
super easy lab test
okay next up we have um low energy
insomnia low mood low motivation
it's one out of ten thousand
that makes sense
because a lot of b12 comes from animal
products
um
yeah so let's say well let's just say
one out of a hundred so 99 out of 100
people will be correct oh we'll be fine
okay
so low energy insomnia low mood low
motivation low enjoyment
what do y'all think
depression okay
insomnia okay
parkinson's
sometimes actually it's not alzheimer's
sure so dementia
low iron
anemia
genetic disorders nice chat
dude some real pog poggers out there
trauma fibromyalgia
yeah so this is the cool thing chat no
no
this
is vitamin d deficiency
now vitamin d deficiency numbers are
really interesting okay
because five percent of the population
is vitamin d deficient but 18 percent of
the population has sub clinical or less
than normal
so there's like with vitamin d
deficiency there's like ranges right so
it's kind of like a bell curve and so
like you know this is actually like 18
percent of the population and this is
like five percent of the population
and so there's kind of like a sub
clinical level and then there's like a
clinically deficient level and so the
people who are like super clinically
deficient which is still five percent of
the population will have severe amounts
of this and about 20 of the population
by the way
i think maybe that the 18
number has something to do with using
the internet's
and playing video games and not going
outside
you think maybe it has something to do
with what you're watching the twitch
what do you think
right
so what this means is let's say that
80 out of 100 people don't have to worry
about this okay
so this is so what i really like about
this is that you guys are picking up on
a lot of different stuff right like and
like you all could have any one of these
things
right like chat you could be pregnant
like you may have gout
it's not something i was expecting right
so anemia is another big one i actually
didn't even include indeed on this i
kind of it was on my other list but i
thought that that would be covering too
many things
right so you could have all these things
i mean or any of these things that
people are tossing out i didn't even
talk about so the other thing there's a
spoiler alert by the way i don't know if
you guys got this but none of these are
mental illnesses like you guys get this
like these are not psychiatric diagnoses
that's the whole point of this lecture
is that all of these mental effects that
we attribute to adhd anxiety depression
i have trouble sleeping the truth is
that a lot of this stuff can be caused
by physiologic things and this is why
you should go get a lab test this is why
you should go see your doctor that's the
whole point of this lecture
okay next up
oh yeah okay
so
what do y'all think about this one
hmm
what is that what do you guys think
fatigue quick to anger feeling sleepy
during the
poor quality sleep mode problems with
motivation and problems with executive
dysfunction malnutrition
apnea
bipolar
okay chlamydia is i'm not even gonna put
that gaming addiction
adhd
alcoholism
we already have apnea here so we can say
insomnia sure
protein deficiency
marijuana use
yeah so like this is the thing right so
i want you guys to really pay attention
to all of the things that you guys are
talking about that are mental so this
one is sleep apnea
someone got it
good job okay so i even i don't think i
even remembered
did i even i don't have the prevalence
of sleep apnea what's the prevalence of
sleep apnea epidemiology here we go
okay so this is interesting so 15 to 30
percent this is staggering in north
america in men
and about 10 to 15 percent in women
so this means that 80 let's just call it
80 out of 100 people will be totally
fine we didn't even get to anemia
so anemia also causes
fatigue
primarily weakness
you know you'll see like pale skin
can sometimes cause like gi problems
right and anemia is pretty common too so
let's see what the
prevalence of anemia is
uh okay what's the prevalence of anemia
can someone find out for me
let me look real quick
oh anemia affects 1.62 billion people
24.8 percent of the population that's
staggering
so we're saying that about 75 out of 100
people are fine with this okay
so
uh that's globally though i suspect i
suspect that in developed countries the
prevalence is somewhat lower
anemia also is more likely to affect
women primarily due to menstruation
okay so let's say this is globally let's
see let's see if we can find out in um
let's
in the see
um so
the overall prevalence of anemia in the
u.s is about 5.6
but i don't know if you guys know this
but not everyone
in chat is from the united states
staggering
or a developed country
okay
so
here's the big takeaway
i want you guys to pay attention to like
everyone who thought like oh this is
adhd this is anxiety
this is insomnia oh dr k how do i find
motivation how do i find this how do i
find that
you know like these are like everyone's
like oh i'm depressed i'm anxious the
truth is that there's a physiologic
likelihood of all of these things
actually happening okay
so
now what we're gonna do if somebody
wants to help me do some math
is we're going to look at so how like
what's the the
rough statistical analysis that we want
to do to see how likely is any one of
y'all
to have none of these problems
does that make sense because now like
okay sure we can say you have a 5 chance
of this 18 chance of this
and how do we kind of do this
calculation right so what we have to do
is we have to multiply
9 10 for our first condition
by
96 times
96 over 100
for our next condition
times
99 over 100
let's use the subclinical number because
that's what i think is actually really
important this population 80 over 100
times
was that 80 over 100 again yeah
80 over 100
times and then you guys can decide
whether we want to do 95 over 100
so who can do this for me
right so
9 times 9.6 times 9.9
times
8 or 0.8
sorry hold on 0.9 0.9 0.9
what is this it's 52
okay so i want you guys to think about
this
of people have none of this
which means that any given person out
there has a 48 chance
of having one of these problems do you
guys get that
so it doesn't matter right now there are
335 people watching the stream
we may upload it to youtube at that
point so if you're watching on youtube i
want you to look at the total number of
views that the video has
cut that number in half and that is the
number of people who watch this video
who has one of these conditions
according to a rough statistical
analysis do you guys get that like this
is huge
this is
gigantic
and so if y'all have these problems if
you have difficulty with motivation if
you have difficulty with anhedonia the
inability to experience pleasure if you
feel tired during the day
if you feel weak if you feel like you
have difficulty with your memory if you
have difficulty planning and executing
actions
following through is what executive
function basically means
if you're constipated if you have
insomnia
if you're quick to anger if you feel
weak during the day
if you're a noob when you play dota you
may have one of these conditions right
so we're talking about
type 2 diabetes which can absolutely
impair your your negative function type
2 diabetes is really fascinating so when
you have a high level of insulin
resistance
as you have a high level of insulin
resistance insulin is the hormone that
causes your your cells to take up blood
sugar right so you remove blood sugar
from the bloodstream it goes into the
cell gets either used by the stellar
cell or stored as fat
so when you're resistant to insulin it
increases the amount of blood sugar
traveling through your body
the unfortunate thing is that high
levels of blood sugar traveling in your
bloodstream is very very bad for you it
causes all kinds of vascular damage
because your blood your blood vessels
are not designed to have high levels of
sugar like floating through them for a
long time
so there are studies on type 2 diabetes
which show that after 18 years of being
a type 2 diabetic you'll have all kinds
of these like pro-dementia like you'll
lose limbs and things like that like i'm
not kidding it's not an exaggeration
but then people started to wonder okay
what about is it is it a long-term
effect or or let's look at a shorter
time span so another study looked at
four years so if i'm if i'm type 2
diabetic for four years what kind of
cognitive impact do i get turns out it's
actually quite bad
now you won't get dementia but there
will be a lot of like temporary
cognitive effects
that will happen while like your blood
sugar is high and then people even did
studies that were cross-sectional and
for those of you don't know what that
means it just looks at a single point in
time
so we take a thousand people and we
measure their blood sugar and then we
measure their cognitive capabilities and
they still found impairment no long-term
effects just one like a cross-section of
young people actually maybe some
long-term damage in there because we
don't know how long those people had
high blood sugar levels but i think the
population was like you know young
adults
so it's not even long-term effects but
even temporary effects of blood sugar
are quite bad
okay so type 2 diabetes is like super
prevalent 10 of the population
then we move on to uh you know other
things like hypothyroidism i think is a
really good example of like a super
silent problem that gets missed a lot
especially like the subclinical
hypothyroidism where they're not
blatantly hypothyroid they're not like
you know their hair isn't falling out
and things like that that's what happens
when your thyroid levels super low
but as it gets like you know as you get
to subclinical levels like not like a
you know a complete deficiency but like
low levels that's when we see this like
low-grade depression stuff is the best
way i can describe it as a psychiatrist
when someone comes in with this like
low-grade depression like they're not
suicidal or anything but they just like
don't feel like doing anything all day
and are kind of bummed out and like
aren't really happy and like not really
motivated and they're just kind of like
meh
like a large percentage of those people
i'd say in my practice like 10 of those
people are like hypothyroid and i just
start them on thyroid medication and
they're like
normal they feel amazing they're like oh
my god
i never realized that people like woke
up every day and had energy
this is completely op
okay
next up hyperthyroidism so that's quite
rare but that can be one of the causes
of anxiety so b12 deficiency is
something that is also quite rare so
like maybe one out of 100 people or even
less than that i would imagine but we
are seeing increases in b12 deficiency
especially due to
um you know changes in diet so like a
lot of our b12 comes from animal
products there are some autoimmune
conditions which can also cause b12
deficiency which i want to say i've seen
more recently i don't know if it's
actually like on the rise
it's still something that's super easy
to get checked so just get it checked
and by the way what you guys want to
check in thyroid level is tsh
um
and then we get to
apnea so this is another really common
thing
uh that oh sorry let's go to vitamin d
levels like so the next thing to check
is vitamin d so vitamin d levels are
also associated with poor outcomes
related to covid messes up your immune
system has a lot to do with calcium
metabolism and like building bones and
absorbing calcium from the gut and like
all kinds of like random stuff vitamin d
is made by sunlight so when we get
exposed to sunlight our body takes that
sunlight and constructs vitamin d out of
it
people who have darker skin color tend
to have a less efficient vitamin d
production
so if you're like living in scandinavia
and you're like pale as snow
then you don't actually need that much
sun exposure to make a lot of vitamin d
if you're from india or you know south
america or something like that at least
the you know
equatorial parts of the world or you're
from africa
you may need a higher amount of vitamin
d uh sun exposure to create vitamin d
and that's just because in those
climates there's a lot of sun so like
our machinery doesn't need to be as
efficient
next up we've got sleep apnea this is
the silent silent
real problem okay so there isn't a lab
and there's not like a blood test for
sleep apnea what you have to do is a
sleep study
but the good news is that most sleep
apnea is like you know you can kind of
get through a good to a good diagnostic
threshold through an interview
so like if you snore if you have like a
thick neck i know it sounds kind of
weird but people who are overweight
people who snore a lot people who have a
thick neck
um they can actually have sleep apnea
and in men it's like 15 to 30 percent of
men have this that like it's nuts and
sleep apnea is basically like
you know imagine playing a video game
where you never get to like
rest right play dark souls without ever
using
a bonfire
and if you play dark souls without ever
using a bonfire
that is what living life with sleep nap
apnea is like
you never get to like you never get back
to 100
and so sleep apnea is one of the most
the problem is that people can function
like people are awesome right like
you're a chad at dark souls and you're
so awesome and you're so skilled but boy
is the game like super hard like life is
just hard when you have sleep apnea you
can hold a job you can kind of study but
like it just doesn't like your brain is
like a colander and knowledge just leaks
out of it right it just doesn't store
things
you feel tired all the time you get
sleepy you're like kind of yawning all
day and like pounding like coffee and
stuff like that and then you fall asleep
at night and then like you wake up and
you don't feel rested so you can
discover a lot of this stuff in a
clinical interview that's why you guys
should go see a doctor you can do a
sleep study then if you get on a cpap
which is a continuous positive airway
pressure machine it'll prevent you from
being apnic and you'll wake up and
you'll feel rested in the morning which
is also like super op the ability to
feel rested if you all don't feel rested
in the morning you're living life on
hard mode
anemia is the next one so anemia is a
good example like you know so sometimes
we'll
women are sometimes more prone to it
because they menstruate
um you know but anyone can be anemic
generally speaking in developed
countries it tends to be like lower
because we have high consumption of like
meat intake and other sources of like
healthy iron so anemia is an iron
deficiency or a lack of red blood cells
in your body so blood cells are like
literally carry oxygen to all of your
different parts of your body so it's
basically like your fuel delivery system
and so what that means when you're
anemic is that like your body is not
getting enough fuel to function properly
so people feel super tired
they feel like weak and things like that
so everyone you know nowadays is like oh
i feel owned right like i'm just like
i'm just owned today like i don't feel
like doing anything there's a lot of
physiologic things that can contribute
to this
and this is something i've learned the
hard ways like a lot of these people in
esports like they have these problems
too so i want you guys to think about
this unless all of you think about your
favorite team and like ask yourself do
these people have a team doctor when was
the last time they saw a doctor when was
last time they had a blood test
because if the answer was like it was
five years ago there's like a 48 chance
that they have one of these problems
that is a staggering it's not a perfect
way to look at statistics because you
know you can have more than one and
things like that and some people are you
know
um
and so like
it's staggering like 48 of people will
have one of these problems so 48 of like
people in chat will potentially have one
of these problems 48 of people who watch
this video so take the number of views
cut it in half and that's how many
people have these problems
it's crazy
so there's a lot of low-hanging fruit
in terms of improving your life has
nothing to do with 99 of what dr k talks
about has nothing to do with finding
your inner whatever has nothing to do
with like stages of change has nothing
to do with insomnia has nothing to do
with depression nothing to do with
anxiety nothing to do with like some
scars nothing to do with meditation
meditation ain't gonna fix this by the
way
it has nothing to do with any of this
stuff it's physiologic
and what i want you all to appreciate is
when i show you the list of these
symptoms everyone's tossing out
psychiatric diagnoses everyone is
tossing out psychiatric diagnoses oh
it's adhd it's depression it's anxiety
this is part of the problem with i think
mental health in this country why is
mental health getting worse despite the
fact that medical science is advancing
it's because a lot of our mental health
providers have no training in physical
medicine
think about that for a second right so
the average psychologist or social
worker gets trained in all kinds of
stuff that we actually get less training
in they're actually really good at that
kind of stuff they actually get more
training in psychotherapy than an md
does
but 48 of people that walk into their
office will have one of these conditions
and generally speaking when i think
about the average therapist i don't
think they're writing lab slips
right so it's like kind of problematic
anyway it's not really their
responsibility because you're i you know
your primary care physician should be
taking care of this stuff for you right
so your gp or general practitioner like
you're you're just running the build
doctor should be evaluating for the
stuff
but as a psychiatrist i want to say that
there's a staggering number of people
who walk into my office
thinking they have a mental health
problem and it turns out to be a
physiologic problem
and then you just start them on the
right medication and it's like they're
fine and sometimes it's not even
medication right in the case of cpap it
can be
it's like a machine in the case of type
2 diabetes it can be like dietary change
and exercise
in the case of anemia it can be dietary
change so you don't even need medication
for this stuff in the case of thyroid
hormone usually need you know medication
for that
but
questions
is it okay to go to a psychiatrist yeah
so a psychiatrist is really the one that
you should hold responsible if they miss
something like this
to be honest because they're the ones
who actually get trained in it right
so social workers and like psychologists
don't do it aren't trained in physical
differential diagnosis they're trained
in like psychiatric differential
diagnosis they're really good at that
do you need medication for subclinical
hypothyroidism you can that's why you
should talk to your doctor about it
right
so it really depends if you're having
symptoms what i would sort of recommend
like i'll treat people with subclinical
hypothyroidism with medication usually
i'll give it a shot if they're having
the cl the clinical symptoms and it's
like they're like yeah i feel like owned
all the time it's like okay let's start
you on a super low dose and see if it
helps
and some of them come in and they say
like yeah it's not really helping we can
add a little bit more we like recheck
their levels and that's like the
practice of medicine so you guys should
really go it's not just like a legal
disclaimer i'm telling y'all that if you
guys are suffering from this stuff go
and actually see a doctor because they
can help you with these things you all
don't have to play dark souls on
hardcore mode like you just don't have
to you shouldn't play life on hardcore
mode because you just have one it's a
hardcore anyway you only get one shot at
it so like you got to play it as best as
you can and optimize everything
does weight loss help with snoring and
sleep apnea absolutely
yeah but i'm a gamer so so that's a
great point trig etheridge
that's literally why we're doing this
lecture
being a gamer is no longer an excuse you
guys deserve better
this idea of the degenerate gamer is
like the lowest common denominator that
i also fall into assuming like
the gamers like they're not gonna go
like do anything
they're gamers there's just energy
drinks and being no like go outside like
go see a doctor
like you deserve better dude
you can be a gamer like that's why we're
healthy gamer we're not like abstinence
from gaming
we're like just like go and see a doctor
like one day out of the year
go and do a one hour appointment with a
doctor out of 365 days in the year
go get this you spend a second hour like
15 20 minutes getting a blood test 15 20
minutes talking to your doctor
getting a prescription for maybe like
hyperthyroidism
or hypothyroidism go pick it up take
your pill every day and then play lol
for eight hours a day
that's fine like i'm not saying i'm just
saying like use two or three hours over
the entire year
and then continue being your degenerate
gamer self like that's all it takes
and then the cool thing is you'll be
more motivated so then like it'll be
easier to stop playing whatever you're
playing
yeah so someone's saying i'm in the
pre-contemplative stage of seeing a
doctor absolutely dude
that's why this is awareness raising
right
so well said someone's paying attention
chad
yeah encouraging everyday drug use while
also maintaining other drugs like
cannabis is bad every day absolutely man
because i know this is kind of weird so
people like oh like he's encouraging
drug use and like but this is drugs so i
know it's kind of weird but what i'm
basing it on is this thing called
science
right where we can do studies
and we can take people who have sleep
apnea who are literally for those of you
who don't know
what i mean i guess there isn't a
medication for sleep apnea so maybe it's
a bad
recommendation a bad choice
but like the other thing about a lot of
is that you don't need medication for
them right but like that's why we use
science like we use science to evaluate
objectively
what is the crap that you're gonna put
in your mouth like what is the pill
you're gonna take and like what are the
benefits and what are the hindrances
and so you should absolutely be
scientific about it i'm not just
advocating it i'm not saying all drugs
are created equally i'm not taking
telling people to take like chemotherapy
out here
right because chemotherapy is way more
damaging than cannabis
and yet it is still sometimes an
appropriate recommendation
so it's about like understanding science
and understanding who you are and
instead of like some kind of resistance
to like
it's a statement of resistance
that i can advocate for some drugs and
not advocate for others yes that is like
literally my job is people come to me
and i will advocate for some drugs
depending on their situation and say
like yeah maybe you shouldn't take that
right it's like hmm
if someone comes into my office and is
hypothyroid i'm not going to recommend
that they take birth control
right because it's like especially if
it's a dude it's like it's not going to
help you
drugs have their time in their place and
cannabis is included we talked about
that there's a time and place for
cannabis but generally speaking it tends
to be used recreationally
so
do i have to quit smoking cannabis see
there is a precontemplative statement do
i have to no you don't have to
you don't have to
like no one's i mean like i don't know
what the legal situation is where you
live and where you are and what the
availability is
it's just
you don't have to
the question is like what's it doing for
you
and how is it hurting you
that's the real way like even when it
comes to gaming right it's like
we're not saying you should be abstinent
from all gaming like we even like i play
games on stream
but i don't you know
today instead of playing dota which i
would love to do because by the way
there's a new hero new patch so it's
very exciting
but it's like doing what's important
right so like what's more important like
teaching chat that 48 of y'all
may have one of these problems or like
playing one game of dota because the
cost is the same it's one hour of my
time
so no i mean no one has to give up
marijuana like i've had patients who are
dying of like alcoholic liver disease
and they don't want to give up alcohol
like that it's your choice right i'm not
gonna make you do it i don't think it's
the right one
you know your kids will miss you but
it's ultimately it's like your choice
you're the one who has to decide what to
put into your body and i've seen this
choice on the other end of the spectrum
too where like sometimes i'll have
patience with schizophrenia
and i like prescribed clozapine and boy
is that a tough choice it's a tough
choice in the opposite direction this is
a medication that will cause you to gain
80 pounds
you will literally start drooling
and it will be hard for you to write
poetry
the upside
is that
your delusions will stop your
hallucinations will stop you'll be able
to like wake up at a decent hour on a
daily basis and be able to interact with
other human beings
and i've had some patients who are like
yeah like i'd rather i'd rather take the
poetry and get hospitalized four times a
year and i've had other patients who are
like it's really sucks i'm really sad
i'm it sucks that i have to take this
medication
but i think i want to stay out of the
hospital and like
be able to have a dog because when i go
to the hospital there's no one to take
care of my dog
it's tough
it's really tough
so i think it's
but that's i mean that's medicine and
that's life like i don't know that
there's ever you know
an always good choice the closest thing
i can think of
in terms of an intervention that works
for just about every human being is
meditation which is precisely why i
teach it at the end of like most streams
okay